ATTENDING (alphabetical):
Bolin (BB), Chastel (SC/chair), Denneau (LD), Engelhardt (TE), Hsieh (HH), Jedicke (RJ/scribe), Kleyna (JK), Veres (PV), Wainscoat (RW/on phone)
AGENDA:

* PS1 status (Chastel)
everything was fine till this morning
autofocus problem last week was fixed
LD was related to broken OTIS3 system
last night's data delayed but otherwise IPP is in SOP

* NEO status (Veres)
in the last 3 weeks since the last MOPS meeting PS1 found 11 NEOs in just 5 nights of observing
all but 3 found in OSS
NEO total is close to 600
RW in June CSS seems to leap over the galactic plane and beat PS1
this gives them 'fresh' sky to find NEOs
some discussion about new tiling/chunking in OTIS to enhance NEO detection
LD thinks there needs to be an all-sky tiling
* IPP Synthetics (Chastel)
wants to inject synthetic detections into images and then pass thru entire IPP+MOPS
injection occurs after detrending which includes e.g. burntool, bias, dark, flat, etc.
so that the background is flat
he is using the Veres trail model
every single input detection is trailed
thinks he will have something ready by the end of this week
expects to be able to provide e.g. eff wrt mag, rate, location
maybe more important to see how derived signal varies with input signal

* Data Czaring (Chastel)
this is SC's normal daily processing
* NEO Czaring (Bolin)
should digest<50 candidates be submitted?
LD the MPC says to submit anything with digest>30 
  but 30<digest<50 will probably not make it to the CP
LD if they are submitted in batch then they are all submitted as NEO candidates
RW is working with MM on followup of lower digest score objects
  MM has a different technique using KNOBS
  they think that there is some utility in followup
RJ Veres did a study that shows NEO probability vs. NEO score
  PV says that NEO probability is <10% for objects with digest<90

* Comets (Hsieh and/or Kleyna)
3 comet pages are known asteroids, submitted objects, unknown fuzzies
most discovered comets have come from submitted objects
all submitted objects are scored by comet probability
does not work well with pairs and with increase in NEO time 
  false detections have gone up dramatically
he has found some known comets
wants the experimental page to be elevated to operational status
there is no formal policy about czaring the comet page
there is no person assigned to the process
BB checks the submitted page for comets but nobody is regularly looking at other pages
BB willing to take on the burden of regular czaring
RJ this could be a major workload increase
HH might not be too bad with the new comet pages
SC who is qualified to do this czaring?
  many can do it
RW have both formally unreported comets been reported?
HH yes.  one is a NEO/comet, the other is a Hilda/comet
  neither are individually interesting but may be paper-worthy as an ensemble
  PS1 seems to be finding low activity comets
  e.g. our MBC/'comet' ratio is high relative to other sites
* Communication with external entities (MPC, CBAT...)
we need a template for submission
RJ suggests that template be explicitly sent out with subject: MPEC template
HH volunteered to make the template
agreed that submissions must first be approved by at least one of
RW, LD and if they are not available then MM, HH
* Galactic plane issues: plans for the future?
considered above re deciding which chunks should be surveyed
BB says the false detection rate is ind. of gal. lat.  (he should figs supporting the claim)
LD (&RJ) don't understand this
it is probably that these are the detections that make it thru to MOPS
* MOPS and NEO clusters source code/binaries convergence (Chastel)
goal is to have same software on both clusters
SC plans on looking at it next week
LD need to ensure that no simulations are running while merge takes place
* AOB: Manual submission of detections (Veres)
see his most recent email for details
when PV submits new detections they are not always replaced at MPC
MPC can not automatically handle all updates
LD MOPS will not allow resubmission of 'identical' detections
sometimes IDL trail fits do not work on MOPS site
  LD how can this be flagged?
  not clear but PV is thinking about using a visual comparison between fit & data
  RJ thinks anything manual is untenable, should not lose sight of automation goal
  SC has a similar idea but also manual
LD MPC claims that they will eventually accept an entirely reprocessed PS1 dataset
RJ does MPC allow observatories to provide detection IDs?
  not even new format allows it
* AOB: Detleff Koschny (ESO)
DK is applying for VLT time for NEO followup
requested # of lost PS1 NEO candidates to justify proposal
LD why can't he go to MPC ONS DB?
RJ not a well-phrased question because what defines a NEO candidate?
  digest>90?  digest>50?
  PV has already done a study showing large fraction of digest>90 objects 
    are already followed up
HH VLT doesn't have wide field imager, is essentially east coast time
RJ probably not important at current NEO rates 
  but could be very important when rate increases with PS1 & PS2
seems clear that RW and Fitzsimmons are the people to confirm 
  that this should be pursued


